# Analyzing-Conversational-Traits-In-Social-Media-Using-Topic-Modeling-And-Emotional-Modeling
These days, many social media posts are produced on the web, which contain an assortment of perspectives, and feelings for products, services, and general events. For example, the social media platform, Twitter, has become the platform for people to share perspectives and commentaries. Given a large collection of tweets from Twitter, their topics and their emotional content can be analyzed using separate topic and emotion models.  This paper, however, investigates combining topics covered by an event and the emotions of these topics to show how they trend over time to understand what insights the combination may yield that the separate models would not. For this investigation, three genres are utilized: ‘Politics’, ‘Sports’, and ‘Corona’.  Topic modeling is performed using Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) and emotion modeling is performed with the assistance of deep learning. Overall, these two modeling techniques can lead to useful insights separately, but combined can give a deeper insight into the tweet data.  For example, our results show that for the ‘Politics’ data from March 1st, 2020, the majority of tweets tend to express sadness or hatred in the topics with specific terms used, such as “Politics”, “Health”, “Science”, and “Government” which can help to identify part of the reason for the particular kind of emotional content of the tweets without having to examine all tweets in detail manually.
